###Practice FRQ
>Describe two of the following and explain how each has been used to increase the power of the federal government relative to the states
> - Categorical Grants
> - Federal Mandates
> - Selective Incorporation

Categorical grants are sums of federal money that are granted to states to reach very specific funding goals.  Often times, the federal government has total control over how the money is spent, and if the conditions aren't met by the states, penalties will be incurred on the states.  This often leads to increased federal power over the states by making states reliant upon funding from the federal government.  Because the federal government holds all the power in whether the grant is given and how the grant is spent, the federal government can make itself more powerful.  An example would be state works programs under the New Deal.

Federal mandates are laws passed by Congress that require that the states follow certain rules.  Often times, categorical grants are used in conjunction with mandates to provide incentives to states to act in a certain way.  Mandates can be accompanied with grants, or they can be *unfunded*, which means its up to the states to fund the venture.  This leads to increased federal power over the states, because Congress(part of the federal government) can directly tell the states what to do, and because of the Supremacy clause, the states can't really do much to counter-act these mandates.

The 10th Amendment
  - Establishes that all powers not explicitly given to Federal Gov belong to the states
  - Contradicts the **Elastic Clause** or **Neccesary and Proper Clause**
    * Article I, Secion 8, Clause 18
    * "To make all laws which shall be necessary and proper for carrying into Execution the [enumerated] powers, and all other powers vested by this constiution[...]"

Types of Powers in the Constitution
  - Enumerated powers
    * Also called "expressed powers"
    * Explicitly given to federal government in constitution
  - Implied powers
    * Granted by elastic clause/Necessary and Proper Clause
  - Reserved powers
    * Granted to states by 10th amendment
