##Practice FRQ  
>a. Identify and explain three specific weaknesses of the Articles of Confederation and how the Constitution resolved each of the problems.

Two key words: **identify** and **explain**

Answer:

a.
	*Congress cannot raise taxes
		Under the AoC, Congress had to ask the states to voluntarily raise funds for the federal government.  Often times, the states failed to do so.  As a result,
		whenever the federal government needed to raise funds for any purpose, they couldn't do so reliably.  Because of this, the constitution explicitly states that
		Congress has the power to levy taxes; specifically, all spending bills originate in the House of Reps.
	*Congress cannot raise an army
		Under the AoC, Congress had no established power to raise an army--that power was reserved to individual states.  As a result, responses to insurrections were
		dangerously slow(ex. Shay's Rebellion).  Because of this, the constitution explicitly states that Congress has the power to raise an army/militia.
	*Government has no established Judiciary
		Under the AoC, no federal court system was established.  As a result, punishment of criminals could vary drastically from state to state, leading to a
		situation where a prisoner could escape from one state to another and be free of his original state's jurisdiction.  Because of this, the constitution
		explicitly establishes the Judicial Branch, the highest court of all law(including Congress).

##How Democratic is the Constitution?

Principles of a Republic:
	-Federalism
	-Popular Sovereignty
	-Limited Government
	-Enumerated Powers
		*Synonomous with "Expressed Powers"
		*Powers explicitly listed by Constitution
	-Reserved Powers
		*Powers granted to the states
		*Anything power not given to Fed gov or prohibited by constitution are **reserved** to the States(10th Amendment)
	-Concurrent Powers
		*Powers that are granted to both the States and the Federal Government
		*Example: Taxation
	-Human nature is inherently selfish
		*Checks and Balances
		*Separation of Powers

##The Individual Rights Issue
	-Some rights explicitly listed in the constitution
		*Prohibits suspension of writs and habeas corpus
		*No bills of attaineder
			+???
		*No Ex post facto laws
			+???
		*No religious test for office
		*Rights in procedings of criminal trials
	-Some rights not explicitly listed in constitution
		*Right to privacy

