#### Practice FRQ
> Initially, the United States did little to protect citizens from the actions of the states.  In the twentieth century, the Supreme Court interpretted the Constitution to protect the rights of citizens from state governments in a process referred to as **selective incorporation**
>
>   a. Define **selective incorporation**
>   b. For **two** of the following, explain how each has been incorporated.  Each of your explanations must be based on a specific and relevant Supreme Court decision.
>     - Rights of criminal defendants
>     - First Amendment
>     - Privacy rihts

#### Answer  
a. Selective incorporation is the process by which the Bill of Rights is selectively applied to the actions of states on a court-by-court basis.
b. 
    - **Rights of criminal defendants**: The bill of rights explicitly grants rights to those accused of crimes.  However, those rights weren't typically applied to the states.  In particular, states were not required to provide suspects with legal representation if they could not afford it.  That changed with *Gideon v Wainwright*, which established the principle that, without ready access to public defenders, the accused could not be guaranteed a fair and speedy trial, violating the Bill of Rights.  This furthered selective incorporation by establishing the precedent that the rights of the accused would be guaranteed by state governments
    - **First Amendment** = Various state laws and policies abridged freedom of speech.  In particular, in *Tinker v Des Moines*, a student was punished for wearing a black arm-band to school in protest of the Vietnam War.  The case was brought before the supreme court, and it ruled that the speech did not constitute a "clear and present danger", and thus, the student's right to speech was being violated.  This contributed to selective incorporation, because an ammendment meant to protect citizens from the Federal Government was being applied to State Governments


## Civil Rights

### Key Ideas
    - Equality
    - *Equal Protection*
    - Right to vote
    - Rights of students
    - Equal access

### Definitions
    - **Civil Rights** = Protections granted by the government to protect groups from discrimination
    - **Civil Liberties** = Rights granted to individuals to protect from government action

### Protected Classes
    - Ethnic Minorities
    - Women
    - People older than 40
    - The disabled
### How do Civil Rights Come About?
    - Lawsuit is filed
    - Must prove actions were done with *malice*
    - *Equal Protection Clause* used to justify it

### Classification of Rules
    - **Strict scrutiny** = policy or actions discriminating based on race are inherently difficult to justify--only okay if it serves a "compelling public interest"
    - **Mid-level review** = policy or actions discriminating based on gender are only okay if they "bear a substantial relationship to an important legislative purpose"
    - **Rational Basis Test** = any other policy or action that discriminates based on other criterion must be *reasonable* and bear a "rational relationship to a legitimate governmental interest"
